- [Instructor] The Command pattern is another one
of these design patterns that exists in the Spring framework
we don't use a lot that are behavior based.
In the Spring framework
there's really two distinct use cases.
First, it's seen with Runnable instances.
Things like the CommandLineRunner,
where you're going to execute a Runnable command
from the base class itself.
The second use case that we see is all the more often seen,
and that's in our MVC layer.
And there's actually an AbstractCommandController
that you can use in Spring MVC
that implements this command pattern.
And the idea here is that in an MVC world,
often you're going to execute these commands against controls,
and you don't want to manipulate the individual controls.
That's going to lead us into what the pattern actually is.
The whole gist of the command pattern is that it provides
an abstraction layer for these request processing scenarios.
Think about a shopping cart.
You have a very common pattern
that you go through with the shopping cart,
but those commands can be executed
on each and every shopping cart in distinct fashion.
So, this process calling action gets a common interface
instead of the underlying implementations,
and once again this leads to decoupling of our code,
which we're going to talk a little bit more about.
This allows the implementation, or implementations,
to be changed without the calling code itself
having to make a change,
because they're calling the common command interface
instead of the underlying implementations.
And finally, this provides a structured processing layer
without tight coupling, so now we can talk about why.
Reducing coupling during command processing,
and this is very, very important.
Command processing tends to be behaviors
that are very stepwise.
You have to do A, and then B, and then C, and then D,
and all of this has to occur in a very set way.
By leveraging command processing,
I don't have to worry about the underlying steps,
I simply have to call the command
and allow the command processor,
or the class that's implementing the command pattern,
to do that chain of events.
This allows behavior to be added
without modifying the calling code,
and in addition to adding behavior,
we also can remove behavior,
and that is always very important as well.
Finally, this allows multiple implementations of the command
to exist without modifications to the caller.
Think about a scenario where a command can exist
in multiple formats based on the state of the application.
By leveraging the command pattern,
I call that common command interface,
and I don't have to worry about
the underlying state changes in my calling code.
Again, decoupling our code, and relying on the interface.
So how would I go about creating a command pattern?
First and foremost I need to create the command interface,
and this is the command that's going to be executed.
Next, I need to create a method to do execution,
which is that method that I just talked about.
But we also need to have a revert method,
though not everybody puts a revert method
on their command pattern.
But I find it to be very important
because many times you want to be able
to stop that command once it's started,
and you need a way to do that.
Next, you're going to create command implementations
that act on specific objects or scenarios,
and all of those implementations are going to pull
from the common command interface.
Finally, your calling code,
so the code that's going to consume this
is actually going to use a hook to the command interface
and not to the individual commands.
That way we can leverage those commands as needed
instead of the concrete implementations of them.
And that's in a nutshell how the Command pattern works.